Now let's get straight to the point.
Let's make this first process sending e-mail to the outer of the blog post that his blog post was comment
at a background job so it won't slow down our request.
So first let's take a look at the Q BHP file which can be found inside the conflict folder.
This is a configuration file for the Qs.
So what you can see here is the default connection that you should use.
If you do not specify another one because of course you can specify directly on which connection you
would like to send a job.
So there are already some of the connections pre configured for you so you can see saying database beanstalk
rescuers and Redis as we've said we'll use that database one and you can see that this is stored as
an environment variable called Q connection.
By default it is sync.
So now let's go to that dot and file and modify that to database.
So how this would actually be stored is there will be a separate table inside your larval project or
basically your database.
Now to create this table we need to run a specific command.
This would be peach bee artisan cue table.
This will create our new migration to create this job stable so table will be called jobs and then you
just need to run Peach Pit artisan migrate.
OK so now this table is created.
Now let's take a look at the Peach Pit my admin.
So this is our new job stable.
Take a look at the structure so there is a usual idea.
There is a queue because we might have separate queues.
So not everything has to be put on one single queue that is then processed.
You might have queues with different names different priority so you might decide which jobs are more
important to process first and which ones can be processed later.
So this is really useful if you have some essential tasks and something that is not really crucial to
your application and can be run later.
Now every job has some amount of attempts because they might fail for whatever reason and you might
decide how many attempts should be taken to process a job.
So this is a column for that.
Now there are also reserved are available at created art.
So this would be some time study will be stored.
Let's not worry about it right now.
And the most important is the payload.
This is basically what has to be done.
You also do not have to worry about that because a handles that.
So you will see in a second what actually gets stored here.
Okay let's go back to our application right now.
So now we have basically everything set up.
So we are ready to make our first job.
So to make this job Let's go to the command post that mark down.
Now what you might have noticed here is that by default.
When we created this Malabo lot of oil has added are you statement for an interface.
This interface is called Shoot.
Q It's actually empty so there is no method to implement from this interface.
It's just there.
And what this is used for is if a class will implement this interface like that.
So we need that implements keyword shoot.
Q If you do something like that lava is smart so it will figure out that if a class implements this
interface it should automatically put this mail that is being sent to as a background job.
Now basically what we have done here is we created our first background job.
So from now on if we will try to add a comment.
This will be put as a background job that lava will process.
Now you have to notice that we didn't have to do any specific to how we called this mail send everything
stays the same.
The only difference is that now that we implement this shoot Q interface this will be dispatched as
a job to process later and then you will of course have to run the Q Walker so it can pick up this job
from this storage which is database in our case and process it which actually would only then send the
actual email.
So let's see that in action
now to clearly see what's happening.
Make sure your mail drop inbox is empty.
You can press this button it will remove all the previous messages.
We don't need them anyway.
Now let's go to our Web site and type a comment first make sure you are out tentacled it.
So let's say something like this should be cute
now.
Notice how quickly this comment was was rather it you might have seen previously that sending this e-mail
actually has slowed down this process significantly.
Now let's take a look at the mail drop.
So you would expect that you have an e-mail here but there is nothing yet.
And even if you wait for 10 minutes there won't be anything here because now sending e-mail is a background
process that has to be executed and the job is stored inside that job stable.
So let's take a look at what we have here.
So we haven't specified any cute names so we have a default one.
Let's not worry about it right now.
Also you can see that inside the payload there is some information it's hard to really to read what
there is.
But well what you can see is that it is a comment posted markdown.
So there is some kind of job and this job has everything that is required to actually send this email
because what a lot of it does it is it's serialized is the class that is basically describing what our
job is.
So by implementing that should cue interface we basically made this comment post that markdown may Malabo
class a job class too and it has basically well it has all the information that we have passed through
it and a lot of knows what to do with that.
So this basically works magically now it has some additional properties attempts is zero right now.
So to actually run this you will have to open the terminal inside the directory where your application
is.
Now let's run peach artisan to see what jobs are available so those are the jobs related to the processing
the queue and what you will actually have to run is for the.
Well the simplest way is to run the queue work artisan command.
So let's do that.
So let's clear the screen and run peach bee artisan queue work and this will start the queue process
or so this is our flow.
We have created the e-mail.
It was stored inside the queue which is database in our case.
Now we are running this queue processor that will take the jobs to one by one and do everything that
it has to do.
So let's go back to the console and run BHP artisan queue work.
Now you can see what this is doing so it has speak up.
The first job from the database table it did what it had to do and then it output at that this job was
processed.
So now when you will refresh the database you will see that it was removed.
And while this makes sense because the job was processed everything that has to be done was done.
And it doesn't need it anymore so it was removed.
And this is how queues work.
Now if you will go to may drop what you now can see is the e-mail that had to be sent.
So we didn't slow slow down our request by sending this e-mail wasting time to communicate with unreceptive
P server which can take well many seconds.
We have just moved this as a background job that works when you of course start a queue process or.
But now you have your e-mail and well basically our application has gained a lot of performance.
So it's not slowed down for the users anymore.
Of course this is just the simplest way to create your jobs.
And there may level class is just just a perfect example on how to queue some of the stuff that your
application needs to do but is actually pretty slow and usually not very crucial to how your application
is functioning.
And in the next lecture we'll see more examples.
And basically in this section where see more examples of on how you can create jobs what you can do
with them and then we'll also learn about how how to handle this SKU process all and all the options
regarding queues in larval.